docs: bold-updates (#1988)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/how-arbitrum-works/bold/bold-economics-of-disputes.mdx

Before the deployment of BoLD, Arbitrum One's security properties were defined by the size of its permissioned set of validators. Validators could collude or finalize/confirm an incorrect state, and users have no recourse aside from the Arbitrum One security council stepping in. Elevating Arbitrum One's decentralization requires a different approach.

In the Fall of 2023, Offchain Labs announced [Arbitrum BoLD](https://medium.com/offchainlabs/bold-permissionless-validation-for-arbitrum-chains-9934eb5328cc), a new dispute resolution protocol built from the ground up that will bring Arbitrum chains to the next level of decentralization. BoLD, which is an acryonym for **Bo**unded **L**iquidity **D**elay, allows permissionless validation of Arbitrum chains. This means that chain owners can remove the list of permissioned validators for their chains to allow anyone to challenge invalid claims made about Arbitrum states on their parent chain and win.

In this document, we'll explore the economics and trade-offs enabling permissionless validation.

## Settling Arbitrum states to Ethereum

> We frequently state that "Arbitrum chains settles their states to a parent chain", and we'll elaborate on what that means. All Arbitrum One transactions can be recreated by reading data from Ethereum L1, as compressed batches of all L2 transactions are frequently posted to Ethereum. Once a batched transaction is included in a finalized block on Ethereum, its history will never be reverted on Arbitrum One. However, when Ethereum receives a batch of transactions, it does not know what the correct result of executing those transactions is. To verify the correct result, there is a separate process that confirms batch correctness on Ethereum: it is called the "assertion."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We frequently state that "Arbitrum chains settle their states to a parent chain", and we'll elaborate on what that means. All Arbitrum One transactions can be recreated by reading data from Ethereum L1, as compressed batches of all L2 transactions are frequently posted to Ethereum. Once a batched transaction is included in a finalized block on Ethereum, its history will never be reverted on Arbitrum One. However, when Ethereum receives a batch of transactions, it does not know what the correct result of executing those transactions is. To verify the correct result, there is a separate process that confirms batch correctness on Ethereum: it is called the "assertion."
```

> For Arbitrum One specifically, approximately every hour, entities known as validators check the correctness of batches by following the <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-chain"><a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-chain">Arbitrum chain</a></a>. Validators then post something called an "assertion", which attests to the validity of a batch, saying, "I have verified this batch". As Ethereum does not know what is correct on Arbitrum One, it allows about seven days for anyone to dispute one of these assertions. Prior to the deployment of BoLD, there was a permissioned list of validators who could post assertions and challenge assertion for all Arbitrum chains. Arbitrum BoLD will enable any chain owner, such as the ArbitrumDAO, to remove this permissioned list. Note that validators who opt to posting assertions are otherwise known as a "assertion proposers".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Arbitrum One specifically, approximately every hour, entities known as validators check the correctness of batches by following the <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-chain"><a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-chain">Arbitrum chain</a></a>. Validators then post something called an "assertion", which attests to the validity of a batch, saying, "I have verified this batch". As Ethereum does not know what is correct on Arbitrum One, it allows about seven days for anyone to dispute one of these assertions. Prior to the deployment of BoLD, there was a permissioned list of validators who could post assertions and challenge assertions for all Arbitrum chains. Arbitrum BoLD will enable any chain owner, such as the ArbitrumDAO, to remove this permissioned list. Note that validators who opt to post assertions are otherwise known as "assertion proposers".
```

[<a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-one">Arbitrum One</a>](https://arbitrum.io/) is currently one of the most widely used Ethereum scaling solutions, with [~$14bn USD in total-value-locked](https://l2beat.com/scaling/projects/arbitrum) at the time of writing. Not only do its scaling properties, such as its 250ms block times, make it popular, but so do its security properties and approach to decentralization. Currently, Arbitrum One is governed by the Arbitrum DAO, one of the most active and robust on-chain organizations.

> However, Arbitrum technology has not yet achieved its [full promise of being fully decentralized](https://docs.arbitrum.foundation/state-of-progressive-decentralization). Currently, L2 to L1 messaging from Arbitrum One back to Ethereum are verified by a permissioned list of validators. These validators can still challenge invalid withdrawals, but the system prevents anyone outside this list from holding them accountable. This permissioned list of validators limits Arbitrum One and Arbitrum Nova to being categorized as a `Stage 1 Rollup` on the [L2Beat website](https://l2beat.com/scaling/summary), meaning it still has training wheels preventing it from reaching its full potential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, Arbitrum technology has not yet achieved its [full promise of being fully decentralized](https://docs.arbitrum.foundation/state-of-progressive-decentralization). Currently, child chain to parent chain messaging from Arbitrum One back to Ethereum are verified by a permissioned list of validators. These validators can still challenge invalid withdrawals, but the system prevents anyone outside this list from holding them accountable. This permissioned list of validators limits Arbitrum One and Arbitrum Nova to being categorized as a `Stage 1 Rollup` on the [L2Beat website](https://l2beat.com/scaling/summary), meaning it still has training wheels preventing it from reaching its full potential.
```

Before the deployment of BoLD, Arbitrum One's security properties were defined by the size of its permissioned set of validators. Validators could collude or finalize/confirm an incorrect state, and users have no recourse aside from the Arbitrum One security council stepping in. Elevating Arbitrum One's decentralization requires a different approach.

In the Fall of 2023, Offchain Labs announced [Arbitrum BoLD](https://medium.com/offchainlabs/bold-permissionless-validation-for-arbitrum-chains-9934eb5328cc), a new dispute resolution protocol built from the ground up that will bring Arbitrum chains to the next level of decentralization. BoLD, which is an acryonym for **Bo**unded **L**iquidity **D**elay, allows permissionless validation of Arbitrum chains. This means that chain owners can remove the list of permissioned validators for their chains to allow anyone to challenge invalid claims made about Arbitrum states on their parent chain and win.

In this document, we'll explore the economics and trade-offs enabling permissionless validation.

## Settling Arbitrum states to Ethereum

> We frequently state that "Arbitrum chains settle their states to a parent chain", and we'll elaborate on what that means. All Arbitrum One transactions can be recreated by reading data from Ethereum L1, as compressed batches of all L2 transactions are frequently posted to Ethereum. Once a batched transaction is included in a finalized block on Ethereum, its history will never be reverted on Arbitrum One. However, when Ethereum receives a batch of transactions, it does not know what the correct result of executing those transactions is. To verify the correct result, there is a separate process that confirms batch correctness on Ethereum: it is called the "assertion."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We frequently state that "Arbitrum chains settle their states to a parent chain", and we'll elaborate on what that means. All Arbitrum One transactions can be recreated by reading data from Ethereum L1, as compressed batches of all L2 transactions are frequently posted to Ethereum. Once a batched transaction is included in a finalized block on Ethereum, its history will likely never be reverted on Arbitrum One. However, when Ethereum receives a batch of transactions, it does not know what the correct result of executing those transactions is. To verify the correct result, there is a separate process that confirms batch correctness on Ethereum: it is called the "assertion."
```

> For Arbitrum One specifically, approximately every hour, entities known as validators check the correctness of batches by following the <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-chain"><a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-chain">Arbitrum chain</a></a>. Validators then post something called an "assertion", which attests to the validity of a batch, saying, "I have verified this batch". As Ethereum does not know what is correct on Arbitrum One, it allows about seven days for anyone to dispute one of these assertions. Prior to the deployment of BoLD, there was a permissioned list of validators who could post assertions and challenge assertions for all Arbitrum chains. Arbitrum BoLD will enable any chain owner, such as the ArbitrumDAO, to remove this permissioned list. Note that validators who opt to post assertions are otherwise known as "assertion proposers".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Arbitrum One specifically, approximately every hour, entities known as validators check the correctness of batches by following the <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-chain"><a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-chain">Arbitrum chain</a></a>. Validators can choose to become proposers and propose something called an "assertion", which attests to the validity of a batch, saying, "I have verified this batch". As Ethereum does not know what is correct on Arbitrum One, it allows about seven days for anyone to dispute one of these assertions. Prior to the deployment of BoLD, there was a permissioned list of proposers who could post assertions and challenge assertions for all Arbitrum chains. Arbitrum BoLD enables any chain owner, such as the ArbitrumDAO, to remove this permissioned list. Note that validators who opt to post assertions are otherwise known as "assertion proposers".
```

### Withdrawing assets back to Ethereum from Arbitrum

> Users of Arbitrum One that have bridged assets from Ethereum can initiate the process of withdrawing said assets at any time. However, for this withdrawal to be fully executed, its corresponding claim must match a confirmed assertion on Ethereum. For instance, if Alice starts a withdrawal transaction on Arbitrum One, it gets posted in a batch on Ethereum. Then, a validator will post an assertion about that batch on Ethereum an hour later. The assertion has a seven-day window in which anyone can dispute it. It is confirmed that this assertion hasn't been disputed within that time frame. After that window passes, Alice will receive her withdrawn assets on Ethereum and is free to use them as she pleases.

Reviewer 2: This sentence seems out-of-place. Do you agree? I edited it.
```suggestion
Users of Arbitrum One that have bridged assets from Ethereum can initiate the process of withdrawing said assets at any time. However, for this withdrawal to be fully executed, its corresponding claim must match a confirmed assertion on Ethereum. For instance, if Alice starts a withdrawal transaction on Arbitrum One, it gets posted in a batch on Ethereum. Then, a validator will post an assertion about that batch on Ethereum an hour later. The assertion has a seven-day window in which anyone can dispute it. After that window passes, the assertion is confirmed by the protocol and Alice will receive her withdrawn assets on Ethereum and is free to use them as she pleases.
```

While both of these bonds can be any ERC20 token and be set to any size, we recommend the use of the `WETH` ERC20 token & the following bond sizes for Arbitrum One:

- Assertion bonds: 3600 `ETH` - required from validators to bond their funds to an assertion in the eventual hopes of having that assertion be confirmed by the rollup protocol. This is a one-time bond required to be able to start posting assertions. This bond can be withdrawn once a validator’s assertion is confirmed and can alternatively be put together via a trustless bonding pool.

> - Challenge-bonds, per level: 555 `ETH` at the "big-step" level; 79 `ETH` at the "small-step" level - required from validators to open challenges against an assertion observed on the parent chain (Ethereum, in the case of Arbitrum One), for each level. Note that “level” corresponds to the level of granularity over which the interactive bisection game gets played, starting at the block level, moving on to a range of WASM execution steps, and then finally to the level of a single step of execution. For more details on the concept of "levels" in BoLD challenges, see [Challenge resolution](/bold/concepts/bold-technical-deep-dive.mdx#challenge-resolution) section in the Technical deep dive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Challenge-bonds, per level: 555 `ETH` at the "big-step" level; 79 `ETH` at the "small-step" level - required from validators to open challenges against an assertion observed on the parent chain (Ethereum, in the case of Arbitrum One), for each level. Note that “level” corresponds to the level of granularity over which the interactive bisection game gets played, starting at the block level, moving on to a range of WASM execution steps, and then finally to the level of a single execution step. For more details on the concept of "levels" in BoLD challenges, see [Challenge resolution](/bold/concepts/bold-technical-deep-dive.mdx#challenge-resolution) section in the Technical deep dive.
```

We require parties to lock up some capital called a "mini-bond" when making big claims in a dispute. These bonds are not needed when making bisection moves but are critical for posting an initial claim. Pricing these mini-bonds helps achieve a high resource ratio of dishonest parties to honest parties.

:::note

"Mini-bonds" is another term for "challenge-bonds" mentioned above in [Pricing bonds](#pricing-bonds).

:::

It is clear that if we can multiply the cost to the malicious party by some multiplier of the honest party, we will get significant security benefits. For instance, imagine if a 1 billion dollar attack can be defended by simply pooling together 10 million dollars. Is it possible to achieve such a ratio?

Let's explore the limitations of making the cost to malicious parties higher than the honest parties'.

> If we aim to have a constant resource ratio > 1, we have to do the following: if the adversary makes N stakes at any level, they can force the honest party to make N stakes at the next level down, where the adversary can choose not to place any stakes at all. Regarding resource ratio, to make the adversary always pay 10x in staking, we need to make the bond amount at one level 10x more than the next (as we go "upward" from subchallenges towards the assertion-level challenge). As there are multiple levels, the equations for the bond size include an exponential factor on the desired constant resource ratio > 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we aim to have a constant resource ratio > 1, we have to do the following: if the adversary makes `N` stakes at any level, they can force the honest party to make `N` stakes at the next level down, where the adversary can choose not to place any stakes at all. Regarding resource ratio, to make the adversary always pay 10x in staking, we need to make the bond amount at one level 10x more than the next (as we go "upward" from subchallenges towards the assertion-level challenge). As there are multiple levels, the equations for the bond size include an exponential factor on the desired constant resource ratio > 1.
```

So, now that we've established that a higher resource ratio is better but comes with some trade-offs, what is the sweet spot?

> We propose a resource of ratio of 6.46 for Arbitrum One. While odd, this resource ratio was calculated taking the initial "bond" to become a proposer (mentioned earlier) and a worst case scenario of 500 gwei/gas on L1 for posting assertions and making subchallenge moves (i.e. if an attack were to happen, the malicious actor could choose to perform their attack during a period of elevated gas prices). Again, we should emphasize that the ratio of malicious to honest cost should be high to sufficiently deter attacks. Under our current assumptions (500gwei/gas) and proposed parameters (bond sizes, etc) for every $6.46 spent by malicious parties attacking, only $1 is needed to defend it successfully in BoLD. Here's a [direct link to the calculations](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/usmdcuopme) where the X-axis is L1 gas costs in gwei and the Y-axis is the resource ratio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We propose a resource ratio of 6.46 for Arbitrum One. While odd, this resource ratio was calculated taking the initial "bond" to become a proposer (mentioned earlier) and a worst-case scenario of 500 gwei/gas on L1 for posting assertions and making subchallenge moves (i.e., if an attack were to happen, the malicious actor could choose to perform their attack during a period of elevated gas prices). Again, we should emphasize that the ratio of malicious to honest cost should be high to sufficiently deter attacks. Under our current assumptions (500gwei/gas) and proposed parameters (bond sizes, etc.), for every $6.46 spent by malicious parties attacking, only $1 is needed to defend it successfully in BoLD. Here's a [direct link to the calculations](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/usmdcuopme) where the X-axis is L1 gas costs in gwei and the Y-axis is the resource ratio.
```

The service fee described above is meant to incentivize or reimburse an honest, active proposer for locking up their capital to propose assertions and advance the chain. Similarly, in the event of an attack, a bounty is proposed to be paid out to honest defenders using confiscated funds from malicious actors (in the event of a challenge).

> For Arbitrum One specifically, 1% (called the “defender’s bounty”) of the confiscated funds from a malicious actor is to be rewarded to honest parties who deposit a challenge bond and post assertions as part of a subchallenge, proportional to the amount that a defender has put up to defend a correct state assertion during the challenge. This bounty applies for all challenges (block challenges, sub challenges and one step challenges). Note that any gas costs spent by honest parties to defend Arbitrum One during a challenge is 100% refundable by the Arbitrum Foundation. In this model, honest defenders and proposers of Arbitrum One are incentivized to participate while malicious actors stand to lose everything they spent attacking Arbitrum One. We believe chain owners who are interested in adopting BoLD for their own chain should follow a similar approach, described above for Arbitrum One, to incentivize challenge participation (but not necessarily assertion proposing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Arbitrum One specifically, 1% (called the “defender’s bounty”) of the confiscated funds from a malicious actor is to be rewarded to honest parties who deposit a challenge bond and post assertions as part of a subchallenge, proportional to the amount that a defender has put up to defend a correct state assertion during the challenge. This bounty applies to all challenges (block challenges, sub challenges and one-step challenges). Note that any gas costs spent by honest parties to defend Arbitrum One during a challenge are 100% refundable by the Arbitrum Foundation. In this model, honest defenders and proposers of Arbitrum One are incentivized to participate while malicious actors stand to lose everything they spent attacking Arbitrum One. We believe chain owners who are interested in adopting BoLD for their own chain should follow a similar approach, described above for Arbitrum One, to incentivize challenge participation (but not necessarily assertion proposing).
```

> In this design, defenders are only eligible for the defender's bounty if they deposit a challenge bond (for Arbitrum One, this is either 555 or 79 `ETH`, depending on the level), posted to an on-chain assertion as part of a subchallenge (i.e., not the top-level assertion), and have had their on-chain subchallenge assertion get confirmed by the protocol. For Arbitrum One, the calculation for the defender's bounty is conducted off-chain by the Arbitrum Foundation, and payment will be made via an ArbitrumDAO governance vote (since confiscated funds go to an ArbitrumDAO-controlled address). Honest parties are not automatically rewarded with all the funds seized from malicious actors to avoid creating a situation where honest parties wastefully compete to be the first ones to make each honest move in the interactive fraud-proof game. Additionally, BoLD resolves disputes by determining which top-level assertion is correct, without necessarily being able to classify every move as “honest” or “malicious” as part of the interactive fraud-proof game without off-chain knowledge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this design, defenders are only eligible for the defender's bounty if they deposit a challenge bond (for Arbitrum One, this is either 555 or 79 `ETH`, depending on the level), posted to an on-chain assertion as part of a subchallenge (i.e., not the top-level assertion), and have had their on-chain subchallenge assertion get confirmed by the protocol. For Arbitrum One, the calculation for the defender's bounty is conducted off-chain by the Arbitrum Foundation, and payment will be made via an ArbitrumDAO governance vote (since confiscated funds go to an ArbitrumDAO-controlled address). Honest parties are not automatically rewarded with all the funds seized from malicious actors to avoid creating a situation where honest parties wastefully compete to be the first to make each honest move in the interactive fraud-proof game. Additionally, BoLD resolves disputes by determining which top-level assertion is correct, without necessarily being able to classify every move as “honest” or “malicious” as part of the interactive fraud-proof game without off-chain knowledge.
```

For Arbitrum One specifically, all eligible entities who wish to be paid the defender's bounty from the ArbitrumDAO must undergo the Arbitrum Foundation’s KYC process as no AIP "may be in violation of applicable laws, in particular sanctions-related regulations". This is also written in the [ArbitrumDAO's Constitution](https://docs.arbitrum.foundation/dao-constitution#section-2-dao-proposals-and-voting-procedures).

## Conclusion

> This page summarizes the rationale behind choosing bond sizes and the cost of spam prevention in Optimistic Rollup dispute protocols. We recommend that bond sizes be high enough to discourage challenges from being opened, as malicious parties will always stand to lose when playing the game. As Arbitrum BoLD does not tie disputes to specific addresses, honest parties can have trustless cooperation to resolve disputes if desired. We posit that making the cost of the malicious parties 10x that of the honest party leads to nice economic properties that help us reason about how to price bonds. We describe how a 6.46x ratio (which BoLD as deployed will achieve) represents a pragmactic point in the design space that strikes a balance between concerns about staking costs against concerns about spam. Finally, we look at a high-level game theory discussion of Optimistic Rollups and argue that solving the verifier's dilemma by incentives to honest validators is an important addition to work towards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page summarizes the rationale behind choosing bond sizes and the cost of spam prevention in Optimistic Rollup dispute protocols. We recommend that bond sizes be high enough to discourage challenges from being opened, as malicious parties will always stand to lose when playing the game. As Arbitrum BoLD does not tie disputes to specific addresses, honest parties can have trustless cooperation to resolve disputes if desired. We posit that making the cost of the malicious parties 10x that of the honest party leads to nice economic properties that help us reason about how to price bonds. We describe how a 6.46x ratio (which BoLD as deployed will achieve) represents a pragmatic point in the design space that strikes a balance between concerns about staking costs against concerns about spam. Finally, we look at a high-level game theory discussion of Optimistic Rollups and argue that solving the verifier's dilemma by incentives to honest validators is an important addition to work towards.
```

> The topic of further improvements and new economic and incentive models for BoLD are valuable and we believe it deserves the full focus and attention of the community in future proposals and discussions. Details around additional or new proposed economic or incentive models for BoLD will need continued research and development work, but the deployment of BoLD as-is represents a substantial improvement to the security of Arbitrum even without all economic-related concerns fully resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The topic of further improvements and new economic and incentive models for BoLD are valuable and we believe it deserves the full focus and attention of the community in future proposals and discussions. Details around additional or new proposed economic or incentive models for BoLD will need continued research and development work. Still, the deployment of BoLD as-is represents a substantial improvement to the security of Arbitrum even without all economic-related concerns being fully resolved.
```
